DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md, before:

# Rayon Sports Platform - Netlify Deployment Guide

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 20.x (specified in `.nvmrc`)
- npm 11.4.2 or compatible
- Netlify CLI installed globally: `npm install -g netlify-cli`
- Netlify account with appropriate permissions
- Supabase project configured

## Environment Variables

### Required Public Variables (Exposed to Browser)

Set these in Netlify dashboard under **Site settings > Environment variables**:

```bash
NEXT_PUBLIC_SITE_URL=https://your-app.netlify.app
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=https://your-project.supabase.co
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your-anon-key
NEXT_PUBLIC_BACKEND_URL=https://your-backend.netlify.app
```

### Required Private Variables (Server-side only)

```bash
SITE_SUPABASE_URL=https://your-project.supabase.co
SITE_SUPABASE_SECRET_KEY=your-service-role-key
SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY=your-service-role-key
ONBOARDING_API_TOKEN=your-onboarding-token
OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-key
```

## Production Kubernetes Secret Storage

For the Kubernetes deployment in `k8s/`, sensitive values are supplied via dedicated secrets:

- `k8s/secrets.yaml` – bootstrap manifest for application secrets. Update the placeholder values before applying so that
  `frontend-secrets`, `backend-secrets`, and `supabase-secrets` align with your Supabase project, Redis password, and session
  keys. The file intentionally ships with redacted placeholders – do **not** commit actual credentials.
- `k8s/postgres.yaml` – provisions a `postgres-credentials` secret alongside the StatefulSet. Rotate the database password in
  this manifest and regenerate `DATABASE_URL` values to match.
- `k8s/redis.yaml` – defines `redis-credentials` for the StatefulSet and requires a strong password.
- `k8s/secrets.yaml` also includes `sentry-secrets` and `metrics-basic-auth` so Prometheus scraping and Sentry ingestion have
  dedicated credentials.

When applying manifests, prefer sealed secrets or your platform’s secret manager in production. The manifests are provided as
reference scaffolding and should be mirrored into the cluster with:

```bash
kubectl apply -f k8s/secrets.yaml --namespace=rayon
kubectl apply -f k8s/postgres.yaml --namespace=rayon
kubectl apply -f k8s/redis.yaml --namespace=rayon
```

### GitHub Actions Deploy Secrets

Populate the repository secrets described in `DEPLOYMENT_READINESS_REPORT.md` (for example `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL`,
`SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY`, `SENTRY_DSN`, `GHCR_TOKEN`, and `METRICS_BASIC_AUTH_PASSWORD`). These power the CI workflows and
container builds that publish to GHCR. Rotate them using your organisation’s secret manager and avoid storing plaintext values
inside the repository.

### Optional Variables

```bash
NEXT_TELEMETRY_DISABLED=1
APP_ENABLE_CSP=1
NEXT_PUBLIC_SENTRY_DSN=your-sentry-dsn
NODE_ENV=production
```

## Local Development with Netlify CLI

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/ikanisa/abareyo.git
cd abareyo
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm ci
```

3. Create `.env.local` file with required environment variables (copy from `.env.example`):
```bash
cp .env.example .env.local
# Edit .env.local with your values
```

4. Link to your Netlify site:
```bash
netlify link
```

5. Start development server:
```bash
npm run dev
# or use Netlify dev for full Netlify environment
netlify dev
```

## Deployment Methods

### Method 1: Continuous Deployment (Recommended)

1. Connect your GitHub repository to Netlify:
   - Go to Netlify dashboard
   - Click "New site from Git"
   - Select your repository
   - Configure build settings:
     - **Build command**: `npm run build:netlify`
     - **Publish directory**: `.next`
     - **Functions directory**: `netlify/functions`

2. Set environment variables in Netlify dashboard

3. Push to main branch - automatic deployment will trigger

### Method 2: Manual Deployment via CLI

1. Build the project:
```bash
npm run build:netlify
```

2. Deploy to Netlify:
```bash
netlify deploy --prod
```

### Method 3: Deploy from Local Machine

```bash
# Build and deploy in one command
npm run build:netlify && netlify deploy --prod --dir=.next
```

## Build Process

The Netlify build process follows these steps:

1. **Preflight checks** - Validates environment and dependencies
2. **Package builds** - Builds `@rayon/contracts` and other workspace packages
3. **Next.js build** - Creates optimized production build
4. **Post-build tasks** - Validates build artifacts and PWA configuration

## PWA Configuration

The platform is configured as a Progressive Web App with:

- **Manifest**: `/public/manifest.json`
- **Service Worker**: `/public/service-worker.js`
- **Offline Support**: `/public/offline.html`
- **Icons**: 192x192 and 512x512 PNG icons in `/public`

To test PWA functionality locally:
```bash
npm run build
npm run start
# Open Chrome DevTools > Application > Service Workers
```

## Native Shells (Archived)

The Android and iOS bridges previously bundled in this repository have been retired. Shipping a production build now only requires the PWA deploy flow documented above. The legacy docs remain under `docs/mobile/` for reference should a dedicated mobile shell return.

## Netlify Functions

API routes are migrated to Netlify Functions for serverless execution.

### Creating New Functions

1. Create TypeScript file in `netlify/functions/`:
```typescript
// netlify/functions/my-function.ts
import { Handler } from '@netlify/functions';

export const handler: Handler = async (event, context) => {
  return {
    statusCode: 200,
    body: JSON.stringify({ message: 'Hello from Netlify Function' }),
  };
};
```

2. Functions are automatically deployed with your site

### Testing Functions Locally

```bash
netlify dev
# Functions available at: http://localhost:8888/.netlify/functions/function-name
```

## Troubleshooting

### Build Fails with "Missing environment variables"

Ensure all required environment variables are set in Netlify dashboard.

### PWA Not Installing

1. Check manifest.json is accessible at `/manifest.json`
2. Verify service worker is registered
3. Test in Chrome DevTools > Application > Manifest

### APK Build Fails

Android packaging is no longer maintained in this repo. If you need to resurrect the flow, start from the archived instructions in `docs/mobile/` and coordinate with Platform Engineering for tooling support.

### Functions Not Working

1. Check function syntax and exports
2. Verify environment variables are available
3. Check Netlify function logs in dashboard

## CI/CD Pipeline

The GitHub Actions workflow `.github/workflows/netlify-deploy.yml` handles:

1. **Linting** - ESLint checks
2. **Type checking** - TypeScript compilation
3. **Unit tests** - Vitest test suite
4. **Build** - Next.js production build
5. **Deployment** - Automatic deploy to Netlify

## Monitoring and Logs

### View Deployment Logs

```bash
netlify logs
```

### View Function Logs

```bash
netlify functions:log function-name
```

### Netlify Dashboard

Monitor deployments, functions, and analytics in the Netlify dashboard.

## Performance Optimization

The deployment is optimized for performance:

- **Static Generation** - Pages are pre-rendered at build time
- **Image Optimization** - Next.js Image component with AVIF/WebP
- **Edge Caching** - Static assets cached at CDN edge
- **Code Splitting** - Automatic code splitting by Next.js
- **Compression** - Gzip/Brotli compression enabled

## Security

Security headers are configured in `netlify.toml`:

- X-Frame-Options: DENY
- X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
- X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block
- Referrer-Policy: strict-origin-when-cross-origin

Additional security via Next.js configuration in `next.config.mjs`.

## Support

For issues or questions:

1. Check this guide and troubleshooting section
2. Review Netlify documentation: https://docs.netlify.com
3. Check GitHub Actions logs for CI/CD issues
4. Contact DevOps team for environment variable access

## Additional Resources

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs)
- [Netlify Documentation](https://docs.netlify.com)
- [Capacitor Documentation](https://capacitorjs.com/docs)
- [Supabase Documentation](https://supabase.com/docs)

Commit message:

Align Kubernetes secrets and observability wiring

DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md, after:

# Rayon Sports Platform - Netlify Deployment Guide

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 20.x (specified in `.nvmrc`)
- npm 11.4.2 or compatible
- Netlify CLI installed globally: `npm install -g netlify-cli`
- Netlify account with appropriate permissions
- Supabase project configured

## Environment Variables

### Required Public Variables (Exposed to Browser)

Set these in Netlify dashboard under **Site settings > Environment variables**:

```bash
NEXT_PUBLIC_SITE_URL=https://your-app.netlify.app
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=https://your-project.supabase.co
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your-anon-key
NEXT_PUBLIC_BACKEND_URL=https://your-backend.netlify.app
```

### Required Private Variables (Server-side only)

```bash
SITE_SUPABASE_URL=https://your-project.supabase.co
SITE_SUPABASE_SECRET_KEY=your-service-role-key
SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY=your-service-role-key
ONBOARDING_API_TOKEN=your-onboarding-token
OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-key
```

## Production Kubernetes Secret Storage

For the Kubernetes deployment in `k8s/`, sensitive values are supplied via dedicated secrets:

- `k8s/secrets.yaml` – bootstrap manifest for application secrets. Update the placeholder values before applying so that
  `frontend-secrets`, `backend-secrets`, and `supabase-secrets` align with your Supabase project, Redis password, and session
  keys. `supabase-secrets` now centralises *all* Supabase URLs, publishable keys, and service-role credentials so both
  deployments consume the same rotated values. The file intentionally ships with redacted placeholders – do **not** commit
  actual credentials.
- `k8s/postgres.yaml` – provisions a `postgres-credentials` secret alongside the StatefulSet. Rotate the database password in
  this manifest and regenerate `DATABASE_URL` values to match.
- `k8s/redis.yaml` – defines `redis-credentials` for the StatefulSet and requires a strong password.
- `k8s/secrets.yaml` also includes `sentry-secrets` (browser + backend DSNs) and `metrics-basic-auth` (basic auth pair for
  `/metrics`) so Prometheus scraping and Sentry ingestion have dedicated credentials.

When applying manifests, prefer sealed secrets or your platform’s secret manager in production. The manifests are provided as
reference scaffolding and should be mirrored into the cluster with:

```bash
kubectl apply -f k8s/secrets.yaml --namespace=rayon
kubectl apply -f k8s/postgres.yaml --namespace=rayon
kubectl apply -f k8s/redis.yaml --namespace=rayon
```

### GitHub Actions Deploy Secrets

Populate the repository secrets described in `DEPLOYMENT_READINESS_REPORT.md` (for example `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL`,
`SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY`, `SENTRY_DSN`, `GHCR_TOKEN`, and `METRICS_BASIC_AUTH_PASSWORD`). These power the CI workflows and
container builds that publish to GHCR. Rotate them using your organisation’s secret manager and avoid storing plaintext values
inside the repository.

### Where secrets live & how to rotate them

- **Primary storage** – store canonical values in the organisation’s vault (1Password, Vault, AWS Secrets Manager, etc.). Each
  entry should indicate the matching Kubernetes secret name (for example `supabase-secrets`, `sentry-secrets`, or
  `metrics-basic-auth`).
- **Kubernetes** – update the manifests in `k8s/` with placeholder values only. When rotating, patch the live secrets via your
  secrets manager or `kubectl apply -f` with sealed secrets, then redeploy the workloads so new pods receive the credentials.
- **GitHub Actions** – mirror the same values into repository deploy secrets (`NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL`,
  `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY`, `NEXT_PUBLIC_SENTRY_DSN`, `BACKEND_SENTRY_DSN_PRODUCTION`, `METRICS_BASIC_AUTH_PASSWORD`, etc.).
  This ensures build pipelines and the migration job resolve the exact configuration pushed to the cluster.

Rotation checklist:
1. Generate new values in the vault and update the entry metadata (timestamp + owner).
2. Update the relevant Kubernetes secret (preferably via sealed secret or secret manager sync) and restart dependent pods.
3. Update the GitHub deploy secrets so CI/CD jobs pick up the same credentials.
4. Announce the rotation in the ops channel/runbook so downstream services know the change is complete.

### Optional Variables

```bash
NEXT_TELEMETRY_DISABLED=1
APP_ENABLE_CSP=1
NEXT_PUBLIC_SENTRY_DSN=your-sentry-dsn
NODE_ENV=production
```

## Local Development with Netlify CLI

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/ikanisa/abareyo.git
cd abareyo
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm ci
```

3. Create `.env.local` file with required environment variables (copy from `.env.example`):
```bash
cp .env.example .env.local
# Edit .env.local with your values
```

4. Link to your Netlify site:
```bash
netlify link
```

5. Start development server:
```bash
npm run dev
# or use Netlify dev for full Netlify environment
netlify dev
```

## Deployment Methods

### Method 1: Continuous Deployment (Recommended)

1. Connect your GitHub repository to Netlify:
   - Go to Netlify dashboard
   - Click "New site from Git"
   - Select your repository
   - Configure build settings:
     - **Build command**: `npm run build:netlify`
     - **Publish directory**: `.next`
     - **Functions directory**: `netlify/functions`

2. Set environment variables in Netlify dashboard

3. Push to main branch - automatic deployment will trigger

### Method 2: Manual Deployment via CLI

1. Build the project:
```bash
npm run build:netlify
```

2. Deploy to Netlify:
```bash
netlify deploy --prod
```

### Method 3: Deploy from Local Machine

```bash
# Build and deploy in one command
npm run build:netlify && netlify deploy --prod --dir=.next
```

## Build Process

The Netlify build process follows these steps:

1. **Preflight checks** - Validates environment and dependencies
2. **Package builds** - Builds `@rayon/contracts` and other workspace packages
3. **Next.js build** - Creates optimized production build
4. **Post-build tasks** - Validates build artifacts and PWA configuration

## PWA Configuration

The platform is configured as a Progressive Web App with:

- **Manifest**: `/public/manifest.json`
- **Service Worker**: `/public/service-worker.js`
- **Offline Support**: `/public/offline.html`
- **Icons**: 192x192 and 512x512 PNG icons in `/public`

To test PWA functionality locally:
```bash
npm run build
npm run start
# Open Chrome DevTools > Application > Service Workers
```

## Native Shells (Archived)

The Android and iOS bridges previously bundled in this repository have been retired. Shipping a production build now only requires the PWA deploy flow documented above. The legacy docs remain under `docs/mobile/` for reference should a dedicated mobile shell return.

## Netlify Functions

API routes are migrated to Netlify Functions for serverless execution.

### Creating New Functions

1. Create TypeScript file in `netlify/functions/`:
```typescript
// netlify/functions/my-function.ts
import { Handler } from '@netlify/functions';

export const handler: Handler = async (event, context) => {
  return {
    statusCode: 200,
    body: JSON.stringify({ message: 'Hello from Netlify Function' }),
  };
};
```

2. Functions are automatically deployed with your site

### Testing Functions Locally

```bash
netlify dev
# Functions available at: http://localhost:8888/.netlify/functions/function-name
```

## Troubleshooting

### Build Fails with "Missing environment variables"

Ensure all required environment variables are set in Netlify dashboard.

### PWA Not Installing

1. Check manifest.json is accessible at `/manifest.json`
2. Verify service worker is registered
3. Test in Chrome DevTools > Application > Manifest

### APK Build Fails

Android packaging is no longer maintained in this repo. If you need to resurrect the flow, start from the archived instructions in `docs/mobile/` and coordinate with Platform Engineering for tooling support.

### Functions Not Working

1. Check function syntax and exports
2. Verify environment variables are available
3. Check Netlify function logs in dashboard

## CI/CD Pipeline

The GitHub Actions workflow `.github/workflows/netlify-deploy.yml` handles:

1. **Linting** - ESLint checks
2. **Type checking** - TypeScript compilation
3. **Unit tests** - Vitest test suite
4. **Build** - Next.js production build
5. **Deployment** - Automatic deploy to Netlify

## Monitoring and Logs

### View Deployment Logs

```bash
netlify logs
```

### View Function Logs

```bash
netlify functions:log function-name
```

### Netlify Dashboard

Monitor deployments, functions, and analytics in the Netlify dashboard.

## Performance Optimization

The deployment is optimized for performance:

- **Static Generation** - Pages are pre-rendered at build time
- **Image Optimization** - Next.js Image component with AVIF/WebP
- **Edge Caching** - Static assets cached at CDN edge
- **Code Splitting** - Automatic code splitting by Next.js
- **Compression** - Gzip/Brotli compression enabled

## Security

Security headers are configured in `netlify.toml`:

- X-Frame-Options: DENY
- X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
- X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block
- Referrer-Policy: strict-origin-when-cross-origin

Additional security via Next.js configuration in `next.config.mjs`.

## Support

For issues or questions:

1. Check this guide and troubleshooting section
2. Review Netlify documentation: https://docs.netlify.com
3. Check GitHub Actions logs for CI/CD issues
4. Contact DevOps team for environment variable access

## Additional Resources

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs)
- [Netlify Documentation](https://docs.netlify.com)
- [Capacitor Documentation](https://capacitorjs.com/docs)
- [Supabase Documentation](https://supabase.com/docs)
