PRODUCTION_READINESS.md, before:

# Production Deployment Readiness Checklist

> **Status**: ⚠️ Blocked — staging validation and production launch tasks pending external access
> **Last Updated**: 2025-11-10T08:00:28Z
> **Build Status**: ✅ Passing
> **Tests**: ✅ 94/94 passing
> **Security**: ✅ Critical issues resolved

## Pre-Deployment Checklist

### 1. Code Quality & Build ✅
- [x] All linting passes (`npm run lint`)
- [x] All type checks pass (`npm run typecheck`)
- [x] All unit tests pass (94 tests)
- [x] Production build succeeds (`npm run build`)
- [x] Frontend Docker build tested
- [x] Backend exists and is properly configured

### 2. Security ✅
- [x] Critical/High vulnerabilities resolved (only 8 low severity in dev dependency remain)
- [x] "use server" directive issues fixed
- [x] Error classes properly separated from server modules
- [ ] **TODO**: Run CodeQL scan before final deployment
- [x] Secrets separated from public environment variables
- [x] CSP configuration ready (`APP_ENABLE_CSP=1` in backend)

### 3. Environment Configuration ⚠️
- [x] Environment validation schema in place (`config/validated-env.mjs`)
- [x] `.env.example` and `.env.production.example` documented
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Set up production secrets in deployment platform
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Configure Supabase project and obtain credentials
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Configure CORS_ORIGIN for production domain
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Generate secure session secrets (32+ characters)
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Set up METRICS_TOKEN for /metrics endpoint

### 4. Infrastructure ⚠️
- [x] Kubernetes manifests updated with all required env vars
- [x] K8s manifests include resource limits
- [x] TLS/HTTPS configuration ready in ingress
- [x] Health check endpoints configured
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Create Kubernetes secrets (see k8s/README.md)
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Update ingress.yaml placeholders (__INGRESS_HOST__, __TLS_SECRET__)
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Install cert-manager for TLS (or provide manual TLS cert)
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Configure image pull secrets for GHCR

### 5. Database & Services ⚠️
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: PostgreSQL database provisioned
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Run Prisma migrations (`npm --prefix backend run prisma:migrate`)
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Redis instance provisioned
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Supabase project configured
- [ ] **OPTIONAL**: Seed admin user if needed
- [ ] **OPTIONAL**: Configure S3-compatible storage if using media uploads

### 6. Observability ⚠️
- [x] Prometheus metrics endpoint exists (`/metrics`)
- [x] Sentry configuration present
- [ ] **RECOMMENDED**: Configure Sentry DSN for error tracking
- [ ] **RECOMMENDED**: Set up Prometheus scraping
- [ ] **RECOMMENDED**: Import Grafana dashboards from `docs/grafana/`
- [ ] **RECOMMENDED**: Apply Prometheus alert rules from `docs/observability/`
- [ ] **BLOCKED 2025-11-10**: Validate dashboards and alert streams — requires access to production Prometheus/Grafana + Sentry tenancy

### 7. OTP Delivery ✅
- [x] WhatsApp OTP template approved and documented (`OTP_WHATSAPP_TEMPLATE_APPROVED=1`) with consent copy matched to the approved Meta template across web, mobile, and chatbot flows.
- [x] Redis-backed rate limits validated via `curl $BACKEND_URL/otp/status` and checked for expected thresholds (`maxPerPhone`, `maxPerIp`, `cooldownSeconds`, `maxVerifyAttempts`) and healthy Redis connection status.
- [x] Admin OTP dashboard live at `/admin/sms/otp` with runtime blacklisting controls and per-minute traffic charts.
- [x] Abuse controls (phone/IP blacklists, cooldown resets) exercised through admin API (`/admin/otp/blacklist`, `/admin/otp/cooldown`) and confirmed in dashboard telemetry.
- [x] Fallback procedures published in [`docs/runbooks/otp-fallbacks.md`](./docs/runbooks/otp-fallbacks.md) including manual session provisioning and Redis flush scripts.

### 8. CI/CD ✅
- [x] GitHub Actions workflows configured
- [x] CI runs lint, type-check, test, build
- [x] Deploy workflow builds and pushes Docker images
- [x] Deploy workflow can apply K8s manifests (when secrets configured)
- [x] DevOps staged the environment secrets and validated the preview/staging workflows before production cutover
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Configure GitHub secrets for deployment

### 9. Documentation ✅
- [x] README.md updated with deployment info
- [x] K8s deployment guide created
- [x] Production environment variables documented
- [x] Cutover readiness checklist exists
- [x] Rollback procedures documented
- [x] Operations runbook available
- [ ] **BLOCKED 2025-11-10**: Capture stakeholder go/no-go sign-offs and attach evidence bundle in `reports/`

> **2025-11-10 validation summary**: Requested full regression, load/performance testing, observability review, stakeholder go/no-go, and production rollout could not be executed inside this sandbox. The tasks require staging/production credentials, mobile binaries, and access to vendor dashboards. See [`reports/operations-log.md`](./reports/operations-log.md) for the recorded operator note and follow-up recommendations.

## Critical Fixes Applied in This PR

1. **Build System**:
   - Fixed "use server" directive violations by extracting error classes
   - Fixed cron-parser API compatibility (parseExpression → parse)
   - Removed dependency on next-axiom with fallback implementation
   - Updated Docker configuration to work with Next.js build output

2. **Security**:
   - Resolved moderate vite vulnerability
   - Updated fast-redact/pino packages
   - Remaining 8 low-severity issues are in @lhci/cli (dev-only tool)

3. **Configuration**:
   - Added all required environment variables to K8s manifests
   - Added resource limits and requests
   - Configured TLS for production ingress
   - Added rate limiting and body size limits

4. **Testing**:
   - All 94 unit tests passing
   - Linting passes with no errors
   - Type checking passes
   - Build succeeds

## Deployment Steps

### 1. Environment Setup
```bash
# 1. Create .env.production.local with actual values (use .env.production.example as template)
# 2. Generate secure secrets:
node -e "console.log(require('crypto').randomBytes(32).toString('hex'))"

# 3. Verify environment:
npm run ci:check-env
```

### 2. Build & Test Locally
```bash
# Build frontend
npm run build

# Build backend (in backend/ directory)
cd backend
npm ci
npm run build
npm run prisma:generate
```

### 3. Deploy to Kubernetes
```bash
# Follow the complete guide in k8s/README.md

# Key steps:
# 1. Create namespace
kubectl apply -f k8s/namespace.yaml

# 2. Create secrets (see k8s/README.md for commands)

# 3. Apply deployments
kubectl apply -f k8s/backend-deployment.yaml
kubectl apply -f k8s/frontend-deployment.yaml

# 4. Update and apply ingress
# Edit k8s/ingress.yaml first, then:
kubectl apply -f k8s/ingress.yaml
```

### 4. Verify Deployment
```bash
# Check pod status
kubectl get pods -n rayon

# Test backend health
kubectl run -n rayon curl --image=curlimages/curl:8.8.0 -i --rm --restart=Never -- \
  curl -fsS http://backend:5000/api/health

# Check logs
kubectl logs -n rayon deployment/backend --tail=50
kubectl logs -n rayon deployment/frontend --tail=50

# Access via ingress (after DNS configured)
curl -I https://your-domain.com
```

## Post-Deployment Monitoring

1. **Immediate (first 24 hours)**:
   - Monitor error rates in Sentry
   - Check pod restarts: `kubectl get pods -n rayon -w`
   - Verify health endpoints respond
   - Test critical user flows

2. **First Week**:
   - Monitor resource usage and adjust limits if needed
   - Review Prometheus metrics and alerts
   - Check for memory leaks or OOM kills
   - Verify backup procedures work

3. **Ongoing**:
   - Review security scan results weekly
   - Update dependencies monthly
   - Rotate secrets quarterly
   - Review and update documentation

## Rollback Procedure

If issues arise after deployment:

```bash
# 1. Rollback to previous image version
kubectl set image deployment/frontend frontend=ghcr.io/ikanisa/abareyo-frontend:<previous-sha> -n rayon
kubectl set image deployment/backend backend=ghcr.io/ikanisa/abareyo-backend:<previous-sha> -n rayon

# 2. Verify rollback
kubectl rollout status deployment/frontend -n rayon
kubectl rollout status deployment/backend -n rayon

# 3. If database migrations were run, may need to restore DB backup
# See docs/runbooks/rollback.md for detailed procedures
```

## Known Limitations

1. **Next.js Standalone Output**: Current setup uses `next start` instead of standalone server.js due to output generation issue (possibly related to Sentry wrapper or i18n config). This works but uses slightly more memory. Future work could investigate and optimize.

2. **Remaining Low Vulnerabilities**: 8 low-severity vulnerabilities remain in @lhci/cli (Lighthouse CI), a dev-only PWA auditing tool. These do not affect production runtime.

3. **Static Export for Some Routes**: Some API routes show prerender warnings during build. This is expected for dynamic routes and doesn't affect functionality.

## Support & Troubleshooting

- **Documentation**: See `docs/runbooks/` for operational guides
- **Issues**: Check existing issues or create new ones on GitHub
- **Logs**: Always check pod logs first: `kubectl logs -n rayon <pod-name>`
- **Health**: Use `/api/health` endpoint for backend, `/` for frontend
- **Metrics**: Access `/metrics` with Bearer token for detailed metrics

## Security Contact

Report security issues via GitHub Security Advisories, not public issues.

---

**Status Summary**: System is ready for production deployment with proper secret configuration and infrastructure setup. All code-level blocking issues have been resolved.

Commit message:

Document blocked release validation tasks

PRODUCTION_READINESS.md, after:

# Production Deployment Readiness Checklist

> **Status**: ⚠️ Blocked — staging validation and production launch tasks pending external access
> **Owner**: Release Management — ChatGPT (sandbox operator)
> **Last Updated**: 2025-11-10T15:13:49Z
> **Build Status**: ✅ Passing
> **Tests**: ✅ 94/94 passing
> **Security**: ✅ Critical issues resolved

## Pre-Deployment Checklist

### 1. Code Quality & Build ✅
- [x] All linting passes (`npm run lint`)
- [x] All type checks pass (`npm run typecheck`)
- [x] All unit tests pass (94 tests)
- [x] Production build succeeds (`npm run build`)
- [x] Frontend Docker build tested
- [x] Backend exists and is properly configured

### 2. Security ✅
- [x] Critical/High vulnerabilities resolved (only 8 low severity in dev dependency remain)
- [x] "use server" directive issues fixed
- [x] Error classes properly separated from server modules
- [ ] **TODO**: Run CodeQL scan before final deployment
- [x] Secrets separated from public environment variables
- [x] CSP configuration ready (`APP_ENABLE_CSP=1` in backend)

### 3. Environment Configuration ⚠️
- [x] Environment validation schema in place (`config/validated-env.mjs`)
- [x] `.env.example` and `.env.production.example` documented
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Set up production secrets in deployment platform
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Configure Supabase project and obtain credentials
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Configure CORS_ORIGIN for production domain
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Generate secure session secrets (32+ characters)
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Set up METRICS_TOKEN for /metrics endpoint

### 4. Infrastructure ⚠️
- [x] Kubernetes manifests updated with all required env vars
- [x] K8s manifests include resource limits
- [x] TLS/HTTPS configuration ready in ingress
- [x] Health check endpoints configured
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Create Kubernetes secrets (see k8s/README.md)
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Update ingress.yaml placeholders (__INGRESS_HOST__, __TLS_SECRET__)
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Install cert-manager for TLS (or provide manual TLS cert)
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Configure image pull secrets for GHCR

### 5. Database & Services ⚠️
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: PostgreSQL database provisioned
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Run Prisma migrations (`npm --prefix backend run prisma:migrate`)
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Redis instance provisioned
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Supabase project configured
- [ ] **OPTIONAL**: Seed admin user if needed
- [ ] **OPTIONAL**: Configure S3-compatible storage if using media uploads

### 6. Observability ⚠️
- [x] Prometheus metrics endpoint exists (`/metrics`)
- [x] Sentry configuration present
- [ ] **RECOMMENDED**: Configure Sentry DSN for error tracking
- [ ] **RECOMMENDED**: Set up Prometheus scraping
- [ ] **RECOMMENDED**: Import Grafana dashboards from `docs/grafana/`
- [ ] **RECOMMENDED**: Apply Prometheus alert rules from `docs/observability/`
- [ ] **BLOCKED 2025-11-10T15:13Z**: Validate dashboards and alert streams — requires access to production Prometheus/Grafana + Sentry tenancy

### 7. OTP Delivery ✅
- [x] WhatsApp OTP template approved and documented (`OTP_WHATSAPP_TEMPLATE_APPROVED=1`) with consent copy matched to the approved Meta template across web, mobile, and chatbot flows.
- [x] Redis-backed rate limits validated via `curl $BACKEND_URL/otp/status` and checked for expected thresholds (`maxPerPhone`, `maxPerIp`, `cooldownSeconds`, `maxVerifyAttempts`) and healthy Redis connection status.
- [x] Admin OTP dashboard live at `/admin/sms/otp` with runtime blacklisting controls and per-minute traffic charts.
- [x] Abuse controls (phone/IP blacklists, cooldown resets) exercised through admin API (`/admin/otp/blacklist`, `/admin/otp/cooldown`) and confirmed in dashboard telemetry.
- [x] Fallback procedures published in [`docs/runbooks/otp-fallbacks.md`](./docs/runbooks/otp-fallbacks.md) including manual session provisioning and Redis flush scripts.

### 8. CI/CD ✅
- [x] GitHub Actions workflows configured
- [x] CI runs lint, type-check, test, build
- [x] Deploy workflow builds and pushes Docker images
- [x] Deploy workflow can apply K8s manifests (when secrets configured)
- [x] DevOps staged the environment secrets and validated the preview/staging workflows before production cutover
- [ ] **REQUIRED**: Configure GitHub secrets for deployment

### 9. Documentation ✅
- [x] README.md updated with deployment info
- [x] K8s deployment guide created
- [x] Production environment variables documented
- [x] Cutover readiness checklist exists
- [x] Rollback procedures documented
- [x] Operations runbook available
- [ ] **BLOCKED 2025-11-10T15:13Z**: Capture stakeholder go/no-go sign-offs and attach evidence bundle in `reports/`

> **2025-11-10T15:13Z validation summary**: Requested full regression, load/performance testing, observability review, stakeholder go/no-go, and production rollout could not be executed inside this sandbox. The tasks require staging/production credentials, mobile binaries, and access to vendor dashboards. See [`reports/operations-log.md`](./reports/operations-log.md) for the recorded operator note and [`reports/2025-11-10-go-no-go.md`](./reports/2025-11-10-go-no-go.md) for the documented go/no-go placeholder and follow-up recommendations.

## Critical Fixes Applied in This PR

1. **Build System**:
   - Fixed "use server" directive violations by extracting error classes
   - Fixed cron-parser API compatibility (parseExpression → parse)
   - Removed dependency on next-axiom with fallback implementation
   - Updated Docker configuration to work with Next.js build output

2. **Security**:
   - Resolved moderate vite vulnerability
   - Updated fast-redact/pino packages
   - Remaining 8 low-severity issues are in @lhci/cli (dev-only tool)

3. **Configuration**:
   - Added all required environment variables to K8s manifests
   - Added resource limits and requests
   - Configured TLS for production ingress
   - Added rate limiting and body size limits

4. **Testing**:
   - All 94 unit tests passing
   - Linting passes with no errors
   - Type checking passes
   - Build succeeds

## Deployment Steps

### 1. Environment Setup
```bash
# 1. Create .env.production.local with actual values (use .env.production.example as template)
# 2. Generate secure secrets:
node -e "console.log(require('crypto').randomBytes(32).toString('hex'))"

# 3. Verify environment:
npm run ci:check-env
```

### 2. Build & Test Locally
```bash
# Build frontend
npm run build

# Build backend (in backend/ directory)
cd backend
npm ci
npm run build
npm run prisma:generate
```

### 3. Deploy to Kubernetes
```bash
# Follow the complete guide in k8s/README.md

# Key steps:
# 1. Create namespace
kubectl apply -f k8s/namespace.yaml

# 2. Create secrets (see k8s/README.md for commands)

# 3. Apply deployments
kubectl apply -f k8s/backend-deployment.yaml
kubectl apply -f k8s/frontend-deployment.yaml

# 4. Update and apply ingress
# Edit k8s/ingress.yaml first, then:
kubectl apply -f k8s/ingress.yaml
```

### 4. Verify Deployment
```bash
# Check pod status
kubectl get pods -n rayon

# Test backend health
kubectl run -n rayon curl --image=curlimages/curl:8.8.0 -i --rm --restart=Never -- \
  curl -fsS http://backend:5000/api/health

# Check logs
kubectl logs -n rayon deployment/backend --tail=50
kubectl logs -n rayon deployment/frontend --tail=50

# Access via ingress (after DNS configured)
curl -I https://your-domain.com
```

## Post-Deployment Monitoring

1. **Immediate (first 24 hours)**:
   - Monitor error rates in Sentry
   - Check pod restarts: `kubectl get pods -n rayon -w`
   - Verify health endpoints respond
   - Test critical user flows

2. **First Week**:
   - Monitor resource usage and adjust limits if needed
   - Review Prometheus metrics and alerts
   - Check for memory leaks or OOM kills
   - Verify backup procedures work

3. **Ongoing**:
   - Review security scan results weekly
   - Update dependencies monthly
   - Rotate secrets quarterly
   - Review and update documentation

## Rollback Procedure

If issues arise after deployment:

```bash
# 1. Rollback to previous image version
kubectl set image deployment/frontend frontend=ghcr.io/ikanisa/abareyo-frontend:<previous-sha> -n rayon
kubectl set image deployment/backend backend=ghcr.io/ikanisa/abareyo-backend:<previous-sha> -n rayon

# 2. Verify rollback
kubectl rollout status deployment/frontend -n rayon
kubectl rollout status deployment/backend -n rayon

# 3. If database migrations were run, may need to restore DB backup
# See docs/runbooks/rollback.md for detailed procedures
```

## Known Limitations

1. **Next.js Standalone Output**: Current setup uses `next start` instead of standalone server.js due to output generation issue (possibly related to Sentry wrapper or i18n config). This works but uses slightly more memory. Future work could investigate and optimize.

2. **Remaining Low Vulnerabilities**: 8 low-severity vulnerabilities remain in @lhci/cli (Lighthouse CI), a dev-only PWA auditing tool. These do not affect production runtime.

3. **Static Export for Some Routes**: Some API routes show prerender warnings during build. This is expected for dynamic routes and doesn't affect functionality.

## Support & Troubleshooting

- **Documentation**: See `docs/runbooks/` for operational guides
- **Issues**: Check existing issues or create new ones on GitHub
- **Logs**: Always check pod logs first: `kubectl logs -n rayon <pod-name>`
- **Health**: Use `/api/health` endpoint for backend, `/` for frontend
- **Metrics**: Access `/metrics` with Bearer token for detailed metrics

## Security Contact

Report security issues via GitHub Security Advisories, not public issues.

---

**Status Summary**: System is ready for production deployment with proper secret configuration and infrastructure setup. All code-level blocking issues have been resolved.
